# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2016-11-02

## Links

* **Audio Recording**: TBP
* **GitHub Issue**: [#9392](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9392)
* **Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dUPFNyK8Yn1yWRAcXPY-mWM2KMWvOOB8Z5BH2s7RpJs>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc_: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/18rnF8IfO10aQ0gRRasH3zSuv397-lm_x1fX1FSGcV7E>


## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/GoDaddy/TC39)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Julien Gilli @misterdjules (CTC)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
* Myles Borins @TheAlphaNerd (CTC)
* Sakthipriyan Vairamani @thefourtheye (observer)
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)


## Standup

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
  * Not much, most of the activity has been on
    https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9279
* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/GoDaddy/TC39)
  * Nothing to report this week
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
  * Issue/PR comments
  * Started working on v7.1.0 release proposal
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
  * v6 to v7 breaking changes wiki doc:
    https://github.com/nodejs/node/wiki/Breaking-changes-between-v6-and-v7
  * working on a new script for the nodejs-github-bot to test the
    backport-ability of pull requests
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
  * organize Diag WG meeting (next Wednesday at 3)
  * nvm and Runtime Management discussion
  * general tests and reviews of diagnostics stuff
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
  * Mostly away at conferences
  * Reading issues to catch up
  * Minor work to push code coverage job forward
  * Minor work with team to restore v8 test job
* Julien Gilli @misterdjules (CTC)
  * Nothing significant this week.
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
  * Continued work on improving string encoding/decoding performance
  * Commented on issues, reviewed PRs
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
  * Working with Matt Loring on the TraceEvent PR
  * Looking at the new interpreter based pipeline in V8
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
  * LibreSSL experimental PR
  * OS X build stuff
* Myles Borins @TheAlphaNerd (CTC)
  * Been on vacation, nothing to report
* Sakthipriyan Vairamani @thefourtheye (observer)
  * organizing meetup
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
  * After a ridiculous number of hours benchmarking and testing
    usability of the async hooks API, have worked out the kinks and am
    finishing up the implementation.
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
  * fixed some flaky tests, including a mega-fix for FreeBSD in CI, CI is
    actually green sometimes now, high fives everyone
  * Node Todo / Outreachy / related
  * issue & PR reviews


---

## Agenda

Extracted from **ctc-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the
**nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/node

* CTC membership nomination: @thefourtheye
  [#8558](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/8558)
* lib: make `String(global) === '[object global]'`
  [#9279](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9279)

### nodejs/TSC

* Consider folding TSC into CTC [#146](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/146)

### nodejs/CTC

* Meeting Schedule [#22](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/22)
* Review how `ctc-review` process is working
  [#20](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/20)

---

## Previous Meeting Review

### nodejs/TSC

* Consider folding TSC into CTC [#146](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/146)

### nodejs/node

* Debugging: name every function
[#8913]https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/8913

---

## Minutes

### CTC membership nomination: @thefourtheye [#8558](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/8558)

@trott: We already have sufficient LGTMs and +1’s from CTC members to approve.
We need to document names and how they voted.

name             | vote
-----------------|-----
addaleax         | +1
bnoordhuis       | +1
ChALkeR          | +1
chrisdickinson   |  
cjihrig          | +1
evanlucas        | +1
fishrock123      | +1
indutny          |
jasnell          | +1
mhdawson         | +1
misterdjules     | +1
mscdex           | +1
ofrobots         | +1
rvagg            | +1
shigeki          | +1
TheAlphaNerd     | +1
trevnorris       | +1
trott            | +1

**Totals**:

vote       | total
-----------|------
Yes        | 16
No         |
Abstain    |

**Next steps**:

* Merge this PR.

---

### Consider folding TSC into CTC [#146](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/146)

@rvagg: Has there been a discussion and can I get a general feel? Are people
leaning a particular way or is this contentious?

@trott: Not much discussion, mostly in issue tracker.

@rvagg: My general reading is that people are positive about this. Will take it
back to TSC. Next step is to come up with proposals for how to move this
forward.

@Fishrock123: I think it’s probably not a great idea to do this, particularly
just after the TSC has figured out why it exists - the Node core definition.
Until that hits the board and we can take action on it I don’t know if this is a
good thing.

@trevnorris: Will folding it put more items on our (CTC) agenda?

@rvagg: One of the goals is not to clutter this (CTC) forum with administrative
work. That was one of the goals of splitting out the TSC/CTC to begin with.

@rvagg: Other things to consider, such as keeping the groups properly aligned
and involving people from CTC as appropriate in TSC.

But we don’t want to delay decision-making or put decisions at risk of people
voicing objections at the last minute.

We want to make sure the organization is functioning really well.

If there are concerns please drop them in the issue.

**Next steps**:

* Remove ctc-agenda tag and continue discussion.

---

### Meeting Schedule [#22](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/22)

@trott: We agreed to revisit this in a month and it’s been a month.

I think overall it’s been a good thing. People who couldn’t attend, e.g.
Shigeki, are able to attend.

I’d like to continue. Please update your times in the Google spreadsheet so we
can continue to schedule appropriately.

Other opinions please speak up right now.

@rvagg: Don’t want to object outright, but it’s difficult cause I can’t make
some of the times.

Has this moved more discussion to GitHub?

@trott: Yes, I think so.

@trott: Would like to find *3* meeting times but this has been difficult.

@Fishrock123: Note that Daylight Savings Time changes are coming up in some
place. So update the sheet accordingly.

@joshgav: So is our consensus that we will continue this from now on
indefinitely?

@trott: I was going to review the times again and propose a new schedule.

Everybody update the doc by this week so I can review and propose schedule.

**Next steps**:

* CTC members update their times in the spreadsheet by Friday 11/4.
* @trott will choose times this weekend and share early next week.

---

### Review how `ctc-review` process is working [#20](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/20)

@trott: This is my item and I’d like to push this discussion out another week.

We’ve been better at doing things in GitHub, but haven’t had much usage of the
CTC review process.

I’d like to give it another week. If we continue to not use it that’s probably a
sign we don’t need it.

@Fishrock123: I haven’t seen this used yet.

@trott: That seems to support my conclusion that we can’t conclude yet.

**Next steps**

* Discuss again in a week or two.

---

### lib: make `String(global) === '[object global]'` [#9279](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9279)

@addaleax: Change in V8 made it report ‘[object Object]`.

@Fishrock123: I don’t think reverting this is necessarily a good thing, but
perhaps we have to.

OTOH it was V8 that caused the change, so maybe they should handle it.

But in any case we should use the new output ([object Object]) in the next major
version of Node.

@thealphanerd: Aren’t people using this for environment checking?

@Fishrock123: Yeah, but that’s not a good way to do that.

@thealphanerd: My gut says we should revert it back and prepare people for the
change in the next major.

OTOH this was caused by V8 and we haven’t taken responsibility for this in the
past, would be a new precedent.

@ofrobots: Two things: What to do in v7? What is the right output?

For v7, we did break the ecosystem, so we should get out a fix sooner. But the
long-term approach we can discuss.

@trevnorris: Why did it return [object global], I can’t replicate that anywhere
else. Did V8 do something to cause that?

@ofrobots: My understanding is that the spec required a change. I don’t know the
detailed reason.

@addaleax: I think Ben dug up the source of this change, I’ll see if I can find
it.

@trott: Judging from tracker, Brian is the strongest voice opposed. Is there a
way we can get to consensus here.

@trevnorris: @bmeck do you know what part of the spec caused this change?

Are we painting ourselves in the corner, since the spec change means it’s going
to have to change at some point?

@trott: Principal of don’t break stuff on purpose.

@Fishrock123: Need to make breaking changes *intentionally*. We’d make an
intentional change in v8.x.

@mscdex: If we’re going to do this, let’s just have the downstream users update.

@Fishrock123: There was discussion because browsers return [object window] for
the global object, and there was a special exception in the spec for that only.

@addaleax: I don’t think there’s anything in the spec about global at all.

@bmeck: Proxy behavior of global is not in [ECMA] spec, purely part of W3C
proposals.

@rvagg: This wasn’t a specifically intended result.

@addaleax: It was intentional in V8.

@trevnorris: If it’s not against spec and not hurt us down the road, sure why
not. But if it’s going to make life harder let’s send PRs to the other modules
and leave it as is.

@Fishrock123: I don’t like the idea of a revert. This isn’t our responsibility.
New V8 version was the breaking change, and this is part of the JS language.

@rvagg: Let’s not push all this back to V8. Similar to Intl.iterator, where we
have to address changes in V8. Need to look at it from the user perspective, and
from the user perspective Node is broken.

@addaleax: Yes, from user perspective it’s a breaking change and they don’t
really care where it comes from. We have the power to do something about it.
This isn’t hugely important, but it sets some precedent that we take some
responsibility.

@rvagg: If it was a language change that would be different. We should hold to
the principal of least surprise for our users.

So on balance I’m in favor of making this change.

@trott: Right now we’re trying to get to consensus. So Brian, do you want to
take this back to GitHub?

@mscdex: The policy we had on V8 flags and other things, this seems to be the
same type of thing. If we’re not going to paper over the V8 flag changes we
shouldn’t do it here.

Once we become VM neutral this could possibly be a problem there.

@addaleax: That actually is an argument for doing the revert, to have consistent
behavior across all implementations.

@Fishrock123: If we were to move to VM neutrality this would be part of many
differences.

I don’t think we should revert (to [object global]) unless we’re going to change
this in the next major.

@thealphanerd: the window object returns [object window] in the browser.

@bmeck: In browsers there are the global proxy and the global object. Lower-case
`window` is the proxy so it might be different. Need to check the actual object.
Could ask Domenic how to get to object.

@rvagg: Let’s move this back to GitHub and try to get consensus. If we can’t get
consensus we’ll bring it back here for a vote next week.

@Fishrock123: For unintentional changes if we’re going to take action it should
be pretty fast.

@evanlucas: WE should do it fast if we’re going to do it.

@mhdawson: I’ll move to a vote.

**Vote is whether to accept this PR as submitted.**

name             | vote
-----------------|-----
addaleax         | +1
bnoordhuis       |
ChALkeR          |  0
chrisdickinson   |  
cjihrig          | 
evanlucas        | +1
fishrock123      |  0
indutny          |
jasnell          | +1
mhdawson         | +1
misterdjules     | +1
mscdex           | -1
ofrobots         | +1
rvagg            | +1
shigeki          |
TheAlphaNerd     | +1
TheFourthEye     | +1
trevnorris       |  0
trott            |  0

Totals:

vote       | total
-----------|------
Yes        | 9
No         | 1
Abstain    | 4

@trott: Does everyone agree that this should be reverted in v8.x?

@rvagg: Open a PR to revert this in v8.x too.

@Fishrock123: Let’s get this in v7.1.

@trott: We should list modules affected by this break and open PRs in their
repos.

@addaleax: Some of these are mentioned in the PR.

**Next Steps**

* Land this PR as proposed.
* Open an issue or PR to change back for v8.x.
* Open PRs in affected downstream repos.

---

## Q/A on public channels

### When will ES6 modules come to Node.js?

@Fishrock123: Not until a V8 version fully supports them. In version 8 of
Node.js at the absolute earliest.

Lots of other work on our end to get ES modules to work outside of the browser.
Have to work with TC39 to make sure everything works, that might take longer.

Chances are there will be a prototype before then, but it won’t be supported at
all.

@bmeck: View from TC39 side - discussing modifying ES spec to enable them to
integrate in a different way than they would have to currently so they behave
like people expect.

The way they currently have to work is very different from how Babel works, so
we need to find something closer to that.

---

### When will async/await land?

@fishrock123: It’s behind a flag in Node v7.x. We have V8 5.4 in Node v7,
async/await comes out from behind a flag in V8 5.5. If we can land V8 5.5 in the
v7.x timeline it will be then, otherwise will be Node v8.x.

@ofrobots: Given that promise hooks aren’t available in V8 5.5, this means
tracing etc. won’t work with async/await in V8 5.5, so we may want to wait
longer. That’s a separate question, but it means async/await might not be ready
even if we move to 5.5.

@rvagg: Wouldn’t that argument also apply to native Promises?

@ofrobots: One *must* use these native Promises with async/await.

---

### Will STOMP be a core module?

@trott: Probably not.

@Fishrock123: Best to look to userland modules.

---

## Upcoming Meetings

* CTC: 2016-Nov-09, time TBD
* TSC: 2016-Nov-03, 1pm US Pacific
* Diagnostics: 2016-Nov-09, 3pm US Pacific

