doc/api/appendix_1.markdown, before:

# Appendix 1 - Third Party Modules

There are many third party modules for Node. At the time of writing, August
2010, the master repository of modules is
[the wiki page](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/modules).

This appendix is intended as a SMALL guide to new-comers to help them
quickly find what are considered to be quality modules. It is not intended
to be a complete list.  There may be better more complete modules found
elsewhere.

- Module Installer: [npm](https://github.com/isaacs/npm)

- HTTP Middleware: [Connect](https://github.com/senchalabs/connect)

- Web Framework: [Express](https://github.com/visionmedia/express)

- Web Sockets: [Socket.IO](https://github.com/learnboost/socket.io)

- HTML Parsing: [HTML5](https://github.com/aredridel/html5)

- [mDNS/Zeroconf/Bonjour](https://github.com/agnat/node_mdns)

- [RabbitMQ, AMQP](https://github.com/postwait/node-amqp)

- [mysql](https://github.com/felixge/node-mysql)

- Serialization: [msgpack](https://github.com/pgriess/node-msgpack)

- Scraping: [Apricot](https://github.com/silentrob/Apricot)

- Debugger: [ndb](https://github.com/smtlaissezfaire/ndb) is a CLI debugger
  [inspector](https://github.com/dannycoates/node-inspector) is a web based
  tool.

- [pcap binding](https://github.com/mranney/node_pcap)

- [ncurses](https://github.com/mscdex/node-ncurses)

- Testing/TDD/BDD: [vows](http://vowsjs.org/),
  [mocha](https://github.com/visionmedia/mocha),
  [mjsunit.runner](https://github.com/tmpvar/mjsunit.runner)

Patches to this list are welcome.

Commit message:

doc: add npm search to appendix
Fixes #3327.

doc/api/appendix_1.markdown, after:

# Appendix 1 - Third Party Modules

There are many third party modules for Node. At the time of writing, August
2010, the master repository of modules is
[the wiki page](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/modules).

You can also find third party modules via [npm search](http://search.npmjs.org).

This appendix is intended as a SMALL guide to new-comers to help them
quickly find what are considered to be quality modules. It is not intended
to be a complete list.  There may be better more complete modules found
elsewhere.

- Module Installer: [npm](https://github.com/isaacs/npm)

- HTTP Middleware: [Connect](https://github.com/senchalabs/connect)

- Web Framework: [Express](https://github.com/visionmedia/express)

- Web Sockets: [Socket.IO](https://github.com/learnboost/socket.io)

- HTML Parsing: [HTML5](https://github.com/aredridel/html5)

- [mDNS/Zeroconf/Bonjour](https://github.com/agnat/node_mdns)

- [RabbitMQ, AMQP](https://github.com/postwait/node-amqp)

- [mysql](https://github.com/felixge/node-mysql)

- Serialization: [msgpack](https://github.com/pgriess/node-msgpack)

- Scraping: [Apricot](https://github.com/silentrob/Apricot)

- Debugger: [ndb](https://github.com/smtlaissezfaire/ndb) is a CLI debugger
  [inspector](https://github.com/dannycoates/node-inspector) is a web based
  tool.

- [pcap binding](https://github.com/mranney/node_pcap)

- [ncurses](https://github.com/mscdex/node-ncurses)

- Testing/TDD/BDD: [vows](http://vowsjs.org/),
  [mocha](https://github.com/visionmedia/mocha),
  [mjsunit.runner](https://github.com/tmpvar/mjsunit.runner)

Patches to this list are welcome.
