doc/api/cli.md, before:

# Command Line Options

<!--introduced_in=v5.9.1-->
<!--type=misc-->

Node.js comes with a variety of CLI options. These options expose built-in
debugging, multiple ways to execute scripts, and other helpful runtime options.

To view this documentation as a manual page in a terminal, run `man node`.


## Synopsis

`node [options] [V8 options] [script.js | -e "script" | -] [--] [arguments]`

`node debug [script.js | -e "script" | <host>:<port>] …`

`node --v8-options`

Execute without arguments to start the [REPL][].

_For more info about `node debug`, please see the [debugger][] documentation._


## Options

### `-v`, `--version`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Print node's version.


### `-h`, `--help`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Print node command line options.
The output of this option is less detailed than this document.


### `-e`, `--eval "script"`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.5.2
changes:
  - version: v5.11.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/5348
    description: Built-in libraries are now available as predefined variables.
-->

Evaluate the following argument as JavaScript. The modules which are
predefined in the REPL can also be used in `script`.

On Windows, using `cmd.exe` a single quote will not work correctly because it
only recognizes double `"` for quoting. In Powershell or Git bash, both `'`
and `"` are usable.


### `-p`, `--print "script"`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.6.4
changes:
  - version: v5.11.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/5348
    description: Built-in libraries are now available as predefined variables.
-->

Identical to `-e` but prints the result.


### `-c`, `--check`
<!-- YAML
added:
  - v5.0.0
  - v4.2.0
-->

Syntax check the script without executing.


### `-i`, `--interactive`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.7.7
-->

Opens the REPL even if stdin does not appear to be a terminal.


### `-r`, `--require module`
<!-- YAML
added: v1.6.0
-->

Preload the specified module at startup.

Follows `require()`'s module resolution
rules. `module` may be either a path to a file, or a node module name.


### `--inspect[=[host:]port]`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.3.0
-->

Activate inspector on host:port. Default is 127.0.0.1:9229.

V8 inspector integration allows tools such as Chrome DevTools and IDEs to debug
and profile Node.js instances. The tools attach to Node.js instances via a
tcp port and communicate using the [Chrome Debugging Protocol][].


### `--inspect-brk[=[host:]port]`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.6.0
-->

Activate inspector on host:port and break at start of user script.
Default host:port is 127.0.0.1:9229.


### `--inspect-port=[host:]port`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.6.0
-->

Set the host:port to be used when the inspector is activated.
Useful when activating the inspector by sending the `SIGUSR1` signal.

Default host is 127.0.0.1.


### `--no-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.8.0
-->

Silence deprecation warnings.


### `--trace-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.8.0
-->

Print stack traces for deprecations.


### `--throw-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.14
-->

Throw errors for deprecations.

### `--pending-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Emit pending deprecation warnings.

Pending deprecations are generally identical to a runtime deprecation with the
notable exception that they are turned *off* by default and will not be emitted
unless either the `--pending-deprecation` command line flag, or the
`NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1` environment variable, is set. Pending deprecations
are used to provide a kind of selective "early warning" mechanism that
developers may leverage to detect deprecated API usage.

### `--no-warnings`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Silence all process warnings (including deprecations).

### `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.10
-->

Aborting instead of exiting causes a core file to be generated for post-mortem
analysis using a debugger (such as `lldb`, `gdb`, and `mdb`).

If this flag is passed, the behavior can still be set to not abort through
[`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()`][] (and through usage of the
`domain` module that uses it).

### `--trace-warnings`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Print stack traces for process warnings (including deprecations).

### `--redirect-warnings=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Write process warnings to the given file instead of printing to stderr. The
file will be created if it does not exist, and will be appended to if it does.
If an error occurs while attempting to write the warning to the file, the
warning will be written to stderr instead.

### `--trace-sync-io`
<!-- YAML
added: v2.1.0
-->

Prints a stack trace whenever synchronous I/O is detected after the first turn
of the event loop.

### `--no-force-async-hooks-checks`
<!-- YAML
added: v9.0.0
-->

Disables runtime checks for `async_hooks`. These will still be enabled
dynamically when `async_hooks` is enabled.

### `--trace-events-enabled`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

Enables the collection of trace event tracing information.

### `--trace-event-categories`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

A comma separated list of categories that should be traced when trace event
tracing is enabled using `--trace-events-enabled`.

### `--zero-fill-buffers`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Automatically zero-fills all newly allocated [Buffer][] and [SlowBuffer][]
instances.


### `--preserve-symlinks`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.3.0
-->

Instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when resolving and
caching modules.

By default, when Node.js loads a module from a path that is symbolically linked
to a different on-disk location, Node.js will dereference the link and use the
actual on-disk "real path" of the module as both an identifier and as a root
path to locate other dependency modules. In most cases, this default behavior
is acceptable. However, when using symbolically linked peer dependencies, as
illustrated in the example below, the default behavior causes an exception to
be thrown if `moduleA` attempts to require `moduleB` as a peer dependency:

```text
{appDir}
 ├── app
 │   ├── index.js
 │   └── node_modules
 │       ├── moduleA -> {appDir}/moduleA
 │       └── moduleB
 │           ├── index.js
 │           └── package.json
 └── moduleA
     ├── index.js
     └── package.json
```

The `--preserve-symlinks` command line flag instructs Node.js to use the
symlink path for modules as opposed to the real path, allowing symbolically
linked peer dependencies to be found.

Note, however, that using `--preserve-symlinks` can have other side effects.
Specifically, symbolically linked *native* modules can fail to load if those
are linked from more than one location in the dependency tree (Node.js would
see those as two separate modules and would attempt to load the module multiple
times, causing an exception to be thrown).

### `--track-heap-objects`
<!-- YAML
added: v2.4.0
-->

Track heap object allocations for heap snapshots.


### `--prof-process`
<!-- YAML
added: v5.2.0
-->

Process V8 profiler output generated using the V8 option `--prof`.


### `--v8-options`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Print V8 command line options.

V8 options allow words to be separated by both dashes (`-`) or
underscores (`_`).

For example, `--stack-trace-limit` is equivalent to `--stack_trace_limit`.

### `--tls-cipher-list=list`
<!-- YAML
added: v4.0.0
-->

Specify an alternative default TLS cipher list. (Requires Node.js to be built
with crypto support. (Default))


### `--enable-fips`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Enable FIPS-compliant crypto at startup. (Requires Node.js to be built with
`./configure --openssl-fips`)


### `--force-fips`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Force FIPS-compliant crypto on startup. (Cannot be disabled from script code.)
(Same requirements as `--enable-fips`)


### `--openssl-config=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.9.0
-->

Load an OpenSSL configuration file on startup. Among other uses, this can be
used to enable FIPS-compliant crypto if Node.js is built with
`./configure --openssl-fips`.

### `--use-openssl-ca`, `--use-bundled-ca`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Use OpenSSL's default CA store or use bundled Mozilla CA store as supplied by
current Node.js version. The default store is selectable at build-time.

Using OpenSSL store allows for external modifications of the store. For most
Linux and BSD distributions, this store is maintained by the distribution
maintainers and system administrators. OpenSSL CA store location is dependent on
configuration of the OpenSSL library but this can be altered at runtime using
environment variables.

The bundled CA store, as supplied by Node.js, is a snapshot of Mozilla CA store
that is fixed at release time. It is identical on all supported platforms.

See `SSL_CERT_DIR` and `SSL_CERT_FILE`.

### `--icu-data-dir=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.15
-->

Specify ICU data load path. (overrides `NODE_ICU_DATA`)


### `-`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Alias for stdin, analogous to the use of - in other command line utilities,
meaning that the script will be read from stdin, and the rest of the options
are passed to that script.


### `--`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Indicate the end of node options. Pass the rest of the arguments to the script.
If no script filename or eval/print script is supplied prior to this, then
the next argument will be used as a script filename.

## Environment Variables

### `NODE_DEBUG=module[,…]`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.32
-->

`','`-separated list of core modules that should print debug information.


### `NODE_PATH=path[:…]`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.32
-->

`':'`-separated list of directories prefixed to the module search path.

On Windows, this is a `';'`-separated list instead.


### `NODE_DISABLE_COLORS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.3.0
-->

When set to `1` colors will not be used in the REPL.


### `NODE_ICU_DATA=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.15
-->

Data path for ICU (Intl object) data. Will extend linked-in data when compiled
with small-icu support.

### `NODE_NO_WARNINGS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

When set to `1`, process warnings are silenced.

### `NODE_OPTIONS=options...`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A space-separated list of command line options. `options...` are interpreted as
if they had been specified on the command line before the actual command line
(so they can be overridden).  Node will exit with an error if an option that is
not allowed in the environment is used, such as `-p` or a script file.

Node options that are allowed are:
- `--enable-fips`
- `--force-fips`
- `--icu-data-dir`
- `--inspect-brk`
- `--inspect-port`
- `--inspect`
- `--no-deprecation`
- `--no-warnings`
- `--openssl-config`
- `--redirect-warnings`
- `--require`, `-r`
- `--throw-deprecation`
- `--tls-cipher-list`
- `--trace-deprecation`
- `--trace-events-categories`
- `--trace-events-enabled`
- `--trace-sync-io`
- `--trace-warnings`
- `--track-heap-objects`
- `--use-bundled-ca`
- `--use-openssl-ca`
- `--v8-pool-size`
- `--zero-fill-buffers`

V8 options that are allowed are:
- `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`
- `--max-old-space-size`
- `--perf-basic-prof`
- `--perf-prof`
- `--stack-trace-limit`

### `NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

When set to `1`, emit pending deprecation warnings.

Pending deprecations are generally identical to a runtime deprecation with the
notable exception that they are turned *off* by default and will not be emitted
unless either the `--pending-deprecation` command line flag, or the
`NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1` environment variable, is set. Pending deprecations
are used to provide a kind of selective "early warning" mechanism that
developers may leverage to detect deprecated API usage.

### `NODE_PRESERVE_SYMLINKS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.1.0
-->

When set to `1`, instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when
resolving and caching modules.

### `NODE_REPL_HISTORY=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v3.0.0
-->

Path to the file used to store the persistent REPL history. The default path is
`~/.node_repl_history`, which is overridden by this variable. Setting the value
to an empty string (`""` or `" "`) disables persistent REPL history.


### `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.3.0
-->

When set, the well known "root" CAs (like VeriSign) will be extended with the
extra certificates in `file`. The file should consist of one or more trusted
certificates in PEM format. A message will be emitted (once) with
[`process.emitWarning()`][emit_warning] if the file is missing or
malformed, but any errors are otherwise ignored.

Note that neither the well known nor extra certificates are used when the `ca`
options property is explicitly specified for a TLS or HTTPS client or server.

### `OPENSSL_CONF=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Load an OpenSSL configuration file on startup. Among other uses, this can be
used to enable FIPS-compliant crypto if Node.js is built with `./configure
--openssl-fips`.

If the [`--openssl-config`][] command line option is used, the environment
variable is ignored.

### `SSL_CERT_DIR=dir`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

If `--use-openssl-ca` is enabled, this overrides and sets OpenSSL's directory
containing trusted certificates.

Be aware that unless the child environment is explicitly set, this environment
variable will be inherited by any child processes, and if they use OpenSSL, it
may cause them to trust the same CAs as node.

### `SSL_CERT_FILE=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

If `--use-openssl-ca` is enabled, this overrides and sets OpenSSL's file
containing trusted certificates.

Be aware that unless the child environment is explicitly set, this environment
variable will be inherited by any child processes, and if they use OpenSSL, it
may cause them to trust the same CAs as node.

### `NODE_REDIRECT_WARNINGS=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

When set, process warnings will be emitted to the given file instead of
printing to stderr. The file will be created if it does not exist, and will be
appended to if it does. If an error occurs while attempting to write the
warning to the file, the warning will be written to stderr instead. This is
equivalent to using the `--redirect-warnings=file` command-line flag.

### `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE=size`

Set the number of threads used in libuv's threadpool to `size` threads.

Asynchronous system APIs are used by Node.js whenever possible, but where they
do not exist, libuv's threadpool is used to create asynchronous node APIs based
on synchronous system APIs. Node.js APIs that use the threadpool are:

- all `fs` APIs, other than the file watcher APIs and those that are explicitly
  synchronous
- `crypto.pbkdf2()`
- `crypto.randomBytes()`, unless it is used without a callback
- `crypto.randomFill()`
- `dns.lookup()`
- all `zlib` APIs, other than those that are explicitly synchronous

Because libuv's threadpool has a fixed size, it means that if for whatever
reason any of these APIs takes a long time, other (seemingly unrelated) APIs
that run in libuv's threadpool will experience degraded performance. In order to
mitigate this issue, one potential solution is to increase the size of libuv's
threadpool by setting the `'UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE'` environment variable to a value
greater than `4` (its current default value).  For more information, see the
[libuv threadpool documentation][].

[`--openssl-config`]: #cli_openssl_config_file
[Buffer]: buffer.html#buffer_buffer
[Chrome Debugging Protocol]: https://chromedevtools.github.io/debugger-protocol-viewer
[REPL]: repl.html
[SlowBuffer]: buffer.html#buffer_class_slowbuffer
[debugger]: debugger.html
[emit_warning]: process.html#process_process_emitwarning_warning_type_code_ctor
[libuv threadpool documentation]: http://docs.libuv.org/en/latest/threadpool.html
[`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()`]: process.html#process_process_setuncaughtexceptioncapturecallback_fn

Commit message:

trace_events: add file pattern cli option
Allow the user to specify the filepath for the trace_events log file
using a template string.

doc/api/cli.md, after:

# Command Line Options

<!--introduced_in=v5.9.1-->
<!--type=misc-->

Node.js comes with a variety of CLI options. These options expose built-in
debugging, multiple ways to execute scripts, and other helpful runtime options.

To view this documentation as a manual page in a terminal, run `man node`.


## Synopsis

`node [options] [V8 options] [script.js | -e "script" | -] [--] [arguments]`

`node debug [script.js | -e "script" | <host>:<port>] …`

`node --v8-options`

Execute without arguments to start the [REPL][].

_For more info about `node debug`, please see the [debugger][] documentation._


## Options

### `-v`, `--version`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Print node's version.


### `-h`, `--help`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Print node command line options.
The output of this option is less detailed than this document.


### `-e`, `--eval "script"`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.5.2
changes:
  - version: v5.11.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/5348
    description: Built-in libraries are now available as predefined variables.
-->

Evaluate the following argument as JavaScript. The modules which are
predefined in the REPL can also be used in `script`.

On Windows, using `cmd.exe` a single quote will not work correctly because it
only recognizes double `"` for quoting. In Powershell or Git bash, both `'`
and `"` are usable.


### `-p`, `--print "script"`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.6.4
changes:
  - version: v5.11.0
    pr-url: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/5348
    description: Built-in libraries are now available as predefined variables.
-->

Identical to `-e` but prints the result.


### `-c`, `--check`
<!-- YAML
added:
  - v5.0.0
  - v4.2.0
-->

Syntax check the script without executing.


### `-i`, `--interactive`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.7.7
-->

Opens the REPL even if stdin does not appear to be a terminal.


### `-r`, `--require module`
<!-- YAML
added: v1.6.0
-->

Preload the specified module at startup.

Follows `require()`'s module resolution
rules. `module` may be either a path to a file, or a node module name.


### `--inspect[=[host:]port]`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.3.0
-->

Activate inspector on host:port. Default is 127.0.0.1:9229.

V8 inspector integration allows tools such as Chrome DevTools and IDEs to debug
and profile Node.js instances. The tools attach to Node.js instances via a
tcp port and communicate using the [Chrome Debugging Protocol][].


### `--inspect-brk[=[host:]port]`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.6.0
-->

Activate inspector on host:port and break at start of user script.
Default host:port is 127.0.0.1:9229.


### `--inspect-port=[host:]port`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.6.0
-->

Set the host:port to be used when the inspector is activated.
Useful when activating the inspector by sending the `SIGUSR1` signal.

Default host is 127.0.0.1.


### `--no-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.8.0
-->

Silence deprecation warnings.


### `--trace-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.8.0
-->

Print stack traces for deprecations.


### `--throw-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.14
-->

Throw errors for deprecations.

### `--pending-deprecation`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Emit pending deprecation warnings.

Pending deprecations are generally identical to a runtime deprecation with the
notable exception that they are turned *off* by default and will not be emitted
unless either the `--pending-deprecation` command line flag, or the
`NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1` environment variable, is set. Pending deprecations
are used to provide a kind of selective "early warning" mechanism that
developers may leverage to detect deprecated API usage.

### `--no-warnings`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Silence all process warnings (including deprecations).

### `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.10
-->

Aborting instead of exiting causes a core file to be generated for post-mortem
analysis using a debugger (such as `lldb`, `gdb`, and `mdb`).

If this flag is passed, the behavior can still be set to not abort through
[`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()`][] (and through usage of the
`domain` module that uses it).

### `--trace-warnings`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Print stack traces for process warnings (including deprecations).

### `--redirect-warnings=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Write process warnings to the given file instead of printing to stderr. The
file will be created if it does not exist, and will be appended to if it does.
If an error occurs while attempting to write the warning to the file, the
warning will be written to stderr instead.

### `--trace-sync-io`
<!-- YAML
added: v2.1.0
-->

Prints a stack trace whenever synchronous I/O is detected after the first turn
of the event loop.

### `--no-force-async-hooks-checks`
<!-- YAML
added: v9.0.0
-->

Disables runtime checks for `async_hooks`. These will still be enabled
dynamically when `async_hooks` is enabled.

### `--trace-events-enabled`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

Enables the collection of trace event tracing information.

### `--trace-event-categories`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

A comma separated list of categories that should be traced when trace event
tracing is enabled using `--trace-events-enabled`.

### `--trace-event-file-pattern`
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

Template string specifying the filepath for the trace event data, it
supports `${rotation}` and `${pid}`.

### `--zero-fill-buffers`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Automatically zero-fills all newly allocated [Buffer][] and [SlowBuffer][]
instances.


### `--preserve-symlinks`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.3.0
-->

Instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when resolving and
caching modules.

By default, when Node.js loads a module from a path that is symbolically linked
to a different on-disk location, Node.js will dereference the link and use the
actual on-disk "real path" of the module as both an identifier and as a root
path to locate other dependency modules. In most cases, this default behavior
is acceptable. However, when using symbolically linked peer dependencies, as
illustrated in the example below, the default behavior causes an exception to
be thrown if `moduleA` attempts to require `moduleB` as a peer dependency:

```text
{appDir}
 ├── app
 │   ├── index.js
 │   └── node_modules
 │       ├── moduleA -> {appDir}/moduleA
 │       └── moduleB
 │           ├── index.js
 │           └── package.json
 └── moduleA
     ├── index.js
     └── package.json
```

The `--preserve-symlinks` command line flag instructs Node.js to use the
symlink path for modules as opposed to the real path, allowing symbolically
linked peer dependencies to be found.

Note, however, that using `--preserve-symlinks` can have other side effects.
Specifically, symbolically linked *native* modules can fail to load if those
are linked from more than one location in the dependency tree (Node.js would
see those as two separate modules and would attempt to load the module multiple
times, causing an exception to be thrown).

### `--track-heap-objects`
<!-- YAML
added: v2.4.0
-->

Track heap object allocations for heap snapshots.


### `--prof-process`
<!-- YAML
added: v5.2.0
-->

Process V8 profiler output generated using the V8 option `--prof`.


### `--v8-options`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.3
-->

Print V8 command line options.

V8 options allow words to be separated by both dashes (`-`) or
underscores (`_`).

For example, `--stack-trace-limit` is equivalent to `--stack_trace_limit`.

### `--tls-cipher-list=list`
<!-- YAML
added: v4.0.0
-->

Specify an alternative default TLS cipher list. (Requires Node.js to be built
with crypto support. (Default))


### `--enable-fips`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Enable FIPS-compliant crypto at startup. (Requires Node.js to be built with
`./configure --openssl-fips`)


### `--force-fips`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.0.0
-->

Force FIPS-compliant crypto on startup. (Cannot be disabled from script code.)
(Same requirements as `--enable-fips`)


### `--openssl-config=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.9.0
-->

Load an OpenSSL configuration file on startup. Among other uses, this can be
used to enable FIPS-compliant crypto if Node.js is built with
`./configure --openssl-fips`.

### `--use-openssl-ca`, `--use-bundled-ca`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Use OpenSSL's default CA store or use bundled Mozilla CA store as supplied by
current Node.js version. The default store is selectable at build-time.

Using OpenSSL store allows for external modifications of the store. For most
Linux and BSD distributions, this store is maintained by the distribution
maintainers and system administrators. OpenSSL CA store location is dependent on
configuration of the OpenSSL library but this can be altered at runtime using
environment variables.

The bundled CA store, as supplied by Node.js, is a snapshot of Mozilla CA store
that is fixed at release time. It is identical on all supported platforms.

See `SSL_CERT_DIR` and `SSL_CERT_FILE`.

### `--icu-data-dir=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.15
-->

Specify ICU data load path. (overrides `NODE_ICU_DATA`)


### `-`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

Alias for stdin, analogous to the use of - in other command line utilities,
meaning that the script will be read from stdin, and the rest of the options
are passed to that script.


### `--`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Indicate the end of node options. Pass the rest of the arguments to the script.
If no script filename or eval/print script is supplied prior to this, then
the next argument will be used as a script filename.

## Environment Variables

### `NODE_DEBUG=module[,…]`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.32
-->

`','`-separated list of core modules that should print debug information.


### `NODE_PATH=path[:…]`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.1.32
-->

`':'`-separated list of directories prefixed to the module search path.

On Windows, this is a `';'`-separated list instead.


### `NODE_DISABLE_COLORS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.3.0
-->

When set to `1` colors will not be used in the REPL.


### `NODE_ICU_DATA=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v0.11.15
-->

Data path for ICU (Intl object) data. Will extend linked-in data when compiled
with small-icu support.

### `NODE_NO_WARNINGS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

When set to `1`, process warnings are silenced.

### `NODE_OPTIONS=options...`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

A space-separated list of command line options. `options...` are interpreted as
if they had been specified on the command line before the actual command line
(so they can be overridden).  Node will exit with an error if an option that is
not allowed in the environment is used, such as `-p` or a script file.

Node options that are allowed are:
- `--enable-fips`
- `--force-fips`
- `--icu-data-dir`
- `--inspect-brk`
- `--inspect-port`
- `--inspect`
- `--no-deprecation`
- `--no-warnings`
- `--openssl-config`
- `--redirect-warnings`
- `--require`, `-r`
- `--throw-deprecation`
- `--tls-cipher-list`
- `--trace-deprecation`
- `--trace-events-categories`
- `--trace-events-enabled`
- `--trace-event-file-pattern`
- `--trace-sync-io`
- `--trace-warnings`
- `--track-heap-objects`
- `--use-bundled-ca`
- `--use-openssl-ca`
- `--v8-pool-size`
- `--zero-fill-buffers`

V8 options that are allowed are:
- `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`
- `--max-old-space-size`
- `--perf-basic-prof`
- `--perf-prof`
- `--stack-trace-limit`

### `NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

When set to `1`, emit pending deprecation warnings.

Pending deprecations are generally identical to a runtime deprecation with the
notable exception that they are turned *off* by default and will not be emitted
unless either the `--pending-deprecation` command line flag, or the
`NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1` environment variable, is set. Pending deprecations
are used to provide a kind of selective "early warning" mechanism that
developers may leverage to detect deprecated API usage.

### `NODE_PRESERVE_SYMLINKS=1`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.1.0
-->

When set to `1`, instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when
resolving and caching modules.

### `NODE_REPL_HISTORY=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v3.0.0
-->

Path to the file used to store the persistent REPL history. The default path is
`~/.node_repl_history`, which is overridden by this variable. Setting the value
to an empty string (`""` or `" "`) disables persistent REPL history.


### `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.3.0
-->

When set, the well known "root" CAs (like VeriSign) will be extended with the
extra certificates in `file`. The file should consist of one or more trusted
certificates in PEM format. A message will be emitted (once) with
[`process.emitWarning()`][emit_warning] if the file is missing or
malformed, but any errors are otherwise ignored.

Note that neither the well known nor extra certificates are used when the `ca`
options property is explicitly specified for a TLS or HTTPS client or server.

### `OPENSSL_CONF=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v6.11.0
-->

Load an OpenSSL configuration file on startup. Among other uses, this can be
used to enable FIPS-compliant crypto if Node.js is built with `./configure
--openssl-fips`.

If the [`--openssl-config`][] command line option is used, the environment
variable is ignored.

### `SSL_CERT_DIR=dir`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

If `--use-openssl-ca` is enabled, this overrides and sets OpenSSL's directory
containing trusted certificates.

Be aware that unless the child environment is explicitly set, this environment
variable will be inherited by any child processes, and if they use OpenSSL, it
may cause them to trust the same CAs as node.

### `SSL_CERT_FILE=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v7.7.0
-->

If `--use-openssl-ca` is enabled, this overrides and sets OpenSSL's file
containing trusted certificates.

Be aware that unless the child environment is explicitly set, this environment
variable will be inherited by any child processes, and if they use OpenSSL, it
may cause them to trust the same CAs as node.

### `NODE_REDIRECT_WARNINGS=file`
<!-- YAML
added: v8.0.0
-->

When set, process warnings will be emitted to the given file instead of
printing to stderr. The file will be created if it does not exist, and will be
appended to if it does. If an error occurs while attempting to write the
warning to the file, the warning will be written to stderr instead. This is
equivalent to using the `--redirect-warnings=file` command-line flag.

### `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE=size`

Set the number of threads used in libuv's threadpool to `size` threads.

Asynchronous system APIs are used by Node.js whenever possible, but where they
do not exist, libuv's threadpool is used to create asynchronous node APIs based
on synchronous system APIs. Node.js APIs that use the threadpool are:

- all `fs` APIs, other than the file watcher APIs and those that are explicitly
  synchronous
- `crypto.pbkdf2()`
- `crypto.randomBytes()`, unless it is used without a callback
- `crypto.randomFill()`
- `dns.lookup()`
- all `zlib` APIs, other than those that are explicitly synchronous

Because libuv's threadpool has a fixed size, it means that if for whatever
reason any of these APIs takes a long time, other (seemingly unrelated) APIs
that run in libuv's threadpool will experience degraded performance. In order to
mitigate this issue, one potential solution is to increase the size of libuv's
threadpool by setting the `'UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE'` environment variable to a value
greater than `4` (its current default value).  For more information, see the
[libuv threadpool documentation][].

[`--openssl-config`]: #cli_openssl_config_file
[Buffer]: buffer.html#buffer_buffer
[Chrome Debugging Protocol]: https://chromedevtools.github.io/debugger-protocol-viewer
[REPL]: repl.html
[SlowBuffer]: buffer.html#buffer_class_slowbuffer
[debugger]: debugger.html
[emit_warning]: process.html#process_process_emitwarning_warning_type_code_ctor
[libuv threadpool documentation]: http://docs.libuv.org/en/latest/threadpool.html
[`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()`]: process.html#process_process_setuncaughtexceptioncapturecallback_fn
