doc/api/events.markdown, before:

# Events

    Stability: 4 - API Frozen

<!--type=module-->

Many objects in Node emit events: a `net.Server` emits an event each time
a peer connects to it, a `fs.readStream` emits an event when the file is
opened. All objects which emit events are instances of `events.EventEmitter`.
You can access this module by doing: `require("events");`

Typically, event names are represented by a camel-cased string, however,
there aren't any strict restrictions on that, as any string will be accepted.

Functions can then be attached to objects, to be executed when an event
is emitted. These functions are called _listeners_.


## Class: events.EventEmitter

To access the EventEmitter class, `require('events').EventEmitter`.

When an `EventEmitter` instance experiences an error, the typical action is
to emit an `'error'` event.  Error events are treated as a special case in node.
If there is no listener for it, then the default action is to print a stack
trace and exit the program.

All EventEmitters emit the event `'newListener'` when new listeners are
added and `'removeListener'` when a listener is removed.

### emitter.addListener(event, listener)
### emitter.on(event, listener)

Adds a listener to the end of the listeners array for the specified event.

    server.on('connection', function (stream) {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    });

### emitter.once(event, listener)

Adds a **one time** listener for the event. This listener is
invoked only the next time the event is fired, after which
it is removed.

    server.once('connection', function (stream) {
      console.log('Ah, we have our first user!');
    });

### emitter.removeListener(event, listener)

Remove a listener from the listener array for the specified event.
**Caution**: changes array indices in the listener array behind the listener.

    var callback = function(stream) {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    };
    server.on('connection', callback);
    // ...
    server.removeListener('connection', callback);


### emitter.removeAllListeners([event])

Removes all listeners, or those of the specified event.


### emitter.setMaxListeners(n)

By default EventEmitters will print a warning if more than 10 listeners are
added for a particular event. This is a useful default which helps finding memory leaks.
Obviously not all Emitters should be limited to 10. This function allows
that to be increased. Set to zero for unlimited.


### emitter.listeners(event)

Returns an array of listeners for the specified event.

    server.on('connection', function (stream) {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    });
    console.log(util.inspect(server.listeners('connection'))); // [ [Function] ]


### emitter.emit(event, [arg1], [arg2], [...])

Execute each of the listeners in order with the supplied arguments.


### Class Method: EventEmitter.listenerCount(emitter, event)

Return the number of listeners for a given event.


### Event: 'newListener'

* `event` {String} The event name
* `listener` {Function} The event handler function

This event is emitted any time someone adds a new listener.


### Event: 'removeListener'

* `event` {String} The event name
* `listener` {Function} The event handler function

This event is emitted any time someone removes a listener.

Commit message:

events: add EventEmitter.defaultMaxListeners
Class property that controls the maximum number of listeners for all
instances of EventEmitter.

Fixes #3014.

Conflicts:
	lib/events.js

doc/api/events.markdown, after:

# Events

    Stability: 4 - API Frozen

<!--type=module-->

Many objects in Node emit events: a `net.Server` emits an event each time
a peer connects to it, a `fs.readStream` emits an event when the file is
opened. All objects which emit events are instances of `events.EventEmitter`.
You can access this module by doing: `require("events");`

Typically, event names are represented by a camel-cased string, however,
there aren't any strict restrictions on that, as any string will be accepted.

Functions can then be attached to objects, to be executed when an event
is emitted. These functions are called _listeners_.


## Class: events.EventEmitter

To access the EventEmitter class, `require('events').EventEmitter`.

When an `EventEmitter` instance experiences an error, the typical action is
to emit an `'error'` event.  Error events are treated as a special case in node.
If there is no listener for it, then the default action is to print a stack
trace and exit the program.

All EventEmitters emit the event `'newListener'` when new listeners are
added and `'removeListener'` when a listener is removed.

### emitter.addListener(event, listener)
### emitter.on(event, listener)

Adds a listener to the end of the listeners array for the specified event.

    server.on('connection', function (stream) {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    });

### emitter.once(event, listener)

Adds a **one time** listener for the event. This listener is
invoked only the next time the event is fired, after which
it is removed.

    server.once('connection', function (stream) {
      console.log('Ah, we have our first user!');
    });

### emitter.removeListener(event, listener)

Remove a listener from the listener array for the specified event.
**Caution**: changes array indices in the listener array behind the listener.

    var callback = function(stream) {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    };
    server.on('connection', callback);
    // ...
    server.removeListener('connection', callback);


### emitter.removeAllListeners([event])

Removes all listeners, or those of the specified event.


### emitter.setMaxListeners(n)

By default EventEmitters will print a warning if more than 10 listeners are
added for a particular event. This is a useful default which helps finding
memory leaks. Obviously not all Emitters should be limited to 10. This function
allows that to be increased. Set to zero for unlimited.


### EventEmitter.defaultMaxListeners

`emitter.setMaxListeners(n)` sets the maximum on a per-instance basis.
This class property lets you set it for *all* `EventEmitter` instances,
current and future, effective immediately. Use with care.

Note that `emitter.setMaxListeners(n)` still has precedence over
`EventEmitter.defaultMaxListeners`.


### emitter.listeners(event)

Returns an array of listeners for the specified event.

    server.on('connection', function (stream) {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    });
    console.log(util.inspect(server.listeners('connection'))); // [ [Function] ]


### emitter.emit(event, [arg1], [arg2], [...])

Execute each of the listeners in order with the supplied arguments.


### Class Method: EventEmitter.listenerCount(emitter, event)

Return the number of listeners for a given event.


### Event: 'newListener'

* `event` {String} The event name
* `listener` {Function} The event handler function

This event is emitted any time someone adds a new listener.


### Event: 'removeListener'

* `event` {String} The event name
* `listener` {Function} The event handler function

This event is emitted any time someone removes a listener.
