# Node Foundation TSC Meeting 2016-06-16

## Links

* **Audio Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L9ebH9A75AA
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/106
* **Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WMrf2OmU11zqlu9SAHeKq8dwH1CSnW-eavLZ8kPCAJo>
* **Previous Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O-nRwKhmKG_vpyGkzlhFe5m5qi-H81cB6nagL4d_7Yw>

## Present

* Rod Vagg (TSC)
* Alexis Campailla (TSC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel (TSC)
* Michael Dawson (Observer)
* Bryan Hughes

## Agenda

Extracted from **tsc-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests
from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

* Regular roll-up reporting for active working groups
  [#109](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/109)
* Add @nebrius as a member of the TSC
  [#108](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/pull/108)
* Define "Node.js core" [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/84)

## Review of last meeting

### nodejs/build

* OS X buildbots/ci: call to action [#367](https://github.com/nodejs/build/issues/367)

### nodejs/TSC

* Define "Node.js core" [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/84)
* Meetings every two weeks?
* Roll-up reporting

## Standup

* Jeremiah Senkpiel: NodeConf.
* Rod Vagg: CTC repo, work on TC39 relationship, work on Electron relationship
* Michael Dawson: No specific TSC related business
* Bryan Hughes: Facilitation discussions at NodeConf
* Alexis Campailla: no specific TSC related business

## Minutes

### Regular roll-up reporting for active working groups [#109](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/109)

* Rod: we need to figure out if this is worthwhile, then which
  working groups and how frequent.
* Jeremiah: what.s the overlap with the regular blog posts
  that we.re doing on the nodesource.com ?
* Rod: this would be getting the groups to report for themselves,
  and also be a chance for evangelisation and talking about future-facing things.
* General discussion and agreement that its a good thing to do.

We want to give option to all groups to provide an update but there
are some we'd plan to chase if we don't get updates.  This List
would linclude: (not exclusive):

* LTS
* Diagnostics
* Inclusivity
* Build
* Benchmarking
* Website
* Testing
* Documentation

Projects:

* citgm
* node-gyp
* nan
* libuv
* nodejs-github-bot

* CTC: big-picture things, releases, important decisions made

Logistics

* Bryan: maybe have more regular reporting for TSC & CTC.
* Rod: we could couple it with the TSC meetings,
  finalise content and report every two weeks.
* Discussed where to report: nodejs.org blog
* Discussed how to collect reports: ask the WGs to decide
  how and who to collect this information.

How frequently to report:

* Monthly or quarterly or two-monthly? Feels
  like 3 months is too long but some concern that
  every month might be hard to make happen.  One
  suggestion was to do monthly but not necessarily
  include reports from all groups. We decided to 
  take this back to github for more discussion.

What to ask from the groups:

* What.s happened, what.s on the horizon
* Provide suggested options about how they
  can collect information.

### Add @nebrius as a member of the TSC [#108](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/pull/108)

* Rod reiterated his comments from #108 and why there.s been a delay.
* Took a vote, got 3/3 endorsing @nebrius, Rod to chase up more votes on GitHub.

### Define "Node.js core" [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/84)

* Discussed ideas that have been raised so far and how we make progress.
* Michael: maybe we rephrase the question to ask what is the area
  on which the TSC has authority and autonomy around ?
* Discussed the option of having a basic definition + 
  a list of projects that are included.
* Rod: the board is likely to be cooperative if we wanted to expand anyway.
* Michael to start a new issue to rekindle the discussion with a strawman
  list of projects that would fit under .node core..

## Q/A

* William Kapke made suggestions about how to collect reporting.
  and getting WGs to assign a secretarial role.
* Josh Gavant commented that it.s not currently clear how
  TSC membership is qualified.

## Next Meeting

2016-06-30
