----------------------------------------------------------------

Notice that the following BSD-style license applies to this one
file (valgrind.h) only.  The rest of Valgrind is licensed under the
terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2, unless
otherwise indicated.  See the COPYING file in the source
distribution for details.

----------------------------------------------------------------

This file is part of Valgrind, a dynamic binary instrumentation
framework.

Copyright (C) 2000-2010 Julian Seward.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must
   not claim that you wrote the original software.  If you use this
   software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product
   documentation would be appreciated but is not required.

3. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must
   not be misrepresented as being the original software.

4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
   products derived from this software without specific prior written
   permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

----------------------------------------------------------------

Notice that the above BSD-style license applies to this one file
(valgrind.h) only.  The entire rest of Valgrind is licensed under
the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2.  See the
COPYING file in the source distribution for details.

----------------------------------------------------------------
