- Contribution Policy was merged last week.

- Concerns about https://github.com/node-forward/node/issues/2 have been brought
  up, it effects almost every line and will make merges with Joyent
  unnecessarily painful in the short term. The consensus was to put it on the
  back burner.

- It's a little difficult to work in the fork at the moment:
  - It's hard to contextualize what to fix without having a release in mind
  - We'll start doing source-only releases ASAP so that we can create a work
    scope.
  - Someone will be in charge of keeping their head around and driving each
    release. This should probably rotate, Bert will take on the first one with
    the goal of releasing before the end of the month.
  - For now tagging will create a GitHub "release." Eventually the build infra
    can attach binary installers to that GitHub release.
  - It's hard to keep a list of issues that are being tackled from the backlog
    in joyent's repo
  - Bert will maintain a list of TODO checkbox items in a GitHub Issue for a
    release the references the PRs and Issues in Joyent's repo. We'll also be on
    the lookout for other tools that might make this easier.

- The build stuff is coming up a lot and the discussion about how releases work
  should include someone from the build project.

- Invite whoever is leading the build effort (current @rvagg) to the TC meeting
  to participate (non-voting).

- Eventually we'll need a better support structure where community members can
  triage issues and respond to all the incoming requests.
  - @mikeal created a "community" group and a repo for larger community issues.
    Once there is some momentum there we can bring problems like this to the
    community but the repo we currently control write access to doesn't have all
    of the issues in it so this can wait.
  - @indutny suggested a bot that auto-responds. @isaacs thought an
    autoresponder was a little inhuman. It was agreed that the best thing to do
    is have a bot that comments on the issue *once a tag is added* that is
    specific to that tag and run in concert with humans tagging issues.
  - @piscisaureus really wants to find a way for him to tell if someone already
    looked at an issue so that him, trevor, ben, and fedor don't independently
    look at every issue.

- @indutny wants to get a newer v8 in. this work is slated to be finished for
  the first release.
  - @trevnorris mentioned that there are some new features in v8 that we may
    want to use to replace certain parts of node down the road.

- @trevnorris and @isaacs want a "commit script" that people can run which
  automates a lot of the manual cleanliness we currently require for all commits.
  v8 has as simliar one. this will be written in javascript by @isaacs and
  @trevnorris .

- When pulling in joyent/node commits we should use no-fast-forward commits.

- If people want to talk to the TC in a more "chatty" way we should use the
  `#node-forward` IRC channel on freenode. We need to add logging.

- The video of TC meetings doesn't include the chat so we need to be aware of
  that when using it during the calls.

Video of the call is https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fNW_tu2QnpA
